We are now on to the final point in this first section here that you have control over,
and that is your hourly rate.
Knowing how to price yourself as a freelancer in general is a really tricky subject,
but I think it's actually a bit simpler on Upwork,
especially if you're just starting out.
One thing I'd say is don't price yourself too low.
You might be asking,
what's too low, Chris?
Essentially, you don't want to be working for below minimum wage in your country.
Number 1, why would you do that to yourself when you
could just go get a minimum wage job and number 2,
that's going to look weird to clients that are hiring.
I don't know about you,
but when I look at somebody from the US,
maybe they live in Los Angeles and they are charging $5 an
hour to do web development or do the similar job to me,
I get a bit [inaudible] to why are they charging that little?
Is that really how much they believe in the quality of what they do,
that they're only going to charge $5 an hour?
That being said, if you're from a country where $5 an hour is a good amount of money,
maybe you are an expert in what you do and that
$5 means a lot more than what it does in the US.
Again, take into consideration where you're coming from,
but as a minimum,
I would say charge at least $25 for most things.
All the skills that are on Upwork,
they're things that require a certain level of expertise.
If you can build a basic website,
you're already more proficient than most people in the world.
If you can design a logo,
you're already better at design than most people in the world by far.
Don't price yourself lower than the minimum wage in your country.
I think a good rate that I've heard people talk about as a minimum would be $25.
Again, if you're from a country where $25 is a lot of money and you're just beginning,
you might want to price yourself lower.
But don't bite yourself in the foot or stab yourself in
the foot by trying to bid too low on jobs.
Say for instance, you live here in
Australia and you are trying to get jobs so desperately that you'll bid at $10.
I wouldn't recommend it,
start at at least 25 because that really is
a bare minimum for that kind of work done here in Australia.
I'm sure in the US,
it would be a similar thing.
The reason why I recommend starting at
25 or your equivalent base hourly rate in the country that you're working from,
is because you want to build up your profile on the platform.
Right here you can see I've got all this experience right on Upwork specifically.
But when I started years ago,
I had nothing on there.
I was happy to bid a little bit lower in order to
get some reviews on my profile because ultimately,
those reviews are going to build your profile up and increase the amount of
trust factors that the client has to look at when they're looking at your profile.
Regardless of whether it's Amazon or YouTube or Upwork,
any of these platforms,
you have to show success on the platform before you get taken really seriously.
That's what the platforms will look for,
and that's what the clients will look for.
I definitely would recommend starting at maybe a bit lower
than what you should be getting or you feel like you could be making,
if that's going to help you to find more jobs.
Just make sure that as you get more experience and as you build up those reviews,
that you start putting up that rate until you feel
like this is the right rate and you're confident at charging that.
Another thing you might wanna do with pricing is taking to account your category.
There's actually a section in the Upwork website that you can see if you're a client.
I don't have access to it because I don't have a client account,
but I have seen screenshots of it.
Maybe I can bring one up here.
I remember seeing this on a blog somewhere.
I think it was this post.
You can see here,
a lot of freelancers don't know this,
but when a client posts a job,
Upwork shows them how much they can expect to pay.
This is all dependent on your category.
If the client sets a project at an experience level of entry level,
they're going to expect to pay around this amount.
Then if they set it at intermediate,
they're going to expect to pay this amount.
At this expert level,
they're going to expect to pay more than that.
That's not to say that necessarily if you're an expert that you should be earning that.
But these are just things to keep in mind that this is the messaging
that the client is receiving when they make a project.
You want to keep this in mind and these numbers are not for every category in Upwork.
I don't know which category this one is,
but each of them are different.
If you'd really like to know what the rates are in your category,
create an Upwork client account and login.
Start to create a project and then once you're doing that,
you'll be able to see what the rates are in the category that you select.
That's another one to note.
If you are intermediate and your category range is 20-46.50 in that category range,
maybe price yourself there.
It really depends on your experience level and skills in terms of
these three levels and also the category that you sit in on Upwork.
Another thing you could do to figure out a good rate for you is
to go for the Upwork search bar here
and type in a search term that you would hope that clients would
find your profile from and you can start to see how much other people are charging.
What I'd recommend for this is actually to open up an incognito window.
What an incognito is,
is a private browser that isn't logged in as you.
I'm just going to resize the browser
here and right now I'm in an incognito window and I'm just going to go to upwork.com.
Now if I go to find freelancers and I
look for what I'm targeting when clients are looking for me.
I want to rank for WordPress developers for the country of Australia.
If I close that, you can see that I'm usually in the top five here,
so I'm number 2 in the results.
You can see here, I think I've got a pretty good rate at
50 an hour because if you look at other people in
this search result with the same amount of
job success as me they're charging around 50,40,37.50,33.33,50.
Not many people are charging more than 50 an hour and the ones that are,
they don't have the best job success score.
I could probably push it a little bit further and I might experiment with that.
But right now I feel like I'm at a good rate.
Again, it's no hard rules to this.
It's based on what your specialization is
within your category and where your skills are at within that,
and also audience, industry,
there's no limit to how much you could set it.
I'm sure I could set it to 100 an hour and maybe score at least one client.
Going back to my own profile,
my final words on choosing your hourly is to not price
yourself too low that the client actually has to ask questions about your quality.
Because say for instance,
if I had all these job success scores top rated,
I'm looking good on the platform.
If I was to charge $10 an hour,
that would probably go against me because there would be questions in the client's head.
Well, does this guy value his time only as much as $10 an hour?
That sparks some confusion to me.
You don't want to confuse your client and you want to make sure that
your price point is both affordable for your target audience,
but also communicates that you believe in the quality that you're producing.
If you have your rate too low, you may think,
oh wow, the client is getting a great deal.
But often price is not the biggest issue here.
It's more about choosing the right quality at the appropriate rate.
It's a tricky one knowing how much to price yourself.
You get a feel for it over time.
A lot of it really comes down to confidence.
There's no reason why you can't jump on Upwork and
for your first job bid a $100 an hour and snag that job.
But what holds freelancers back a lot is having the confidence to charge that.
I think your confidence is sometimes a good reflector of where you see your skills at.
Sometimes you might be under confident and not value your skills enough,
but you could be overconfident as well and you don't want that to happen
where you sell somebody on a job where you're earning a 100 an hour,
and you really don't have the skills to back that up.
It comes down to experience.
It comes down to understanding your audience,
and it comes down to the confidence in what you can do for your clients.
That's a little bit on pricing.
Guys, just to simplify it once again,
if you are starting out on Upwork,
my rule of thumb is start at 25 an hour and then get some jobs on
your profile and then test bumping your rate up
and targeting higher paying clients and see how that goes.
I'm pretty sure I started,
I think at 20 or 25 an hour and now I've bumped it gradually up to 50.
Just start small, build up your profile and over time,
you'll get to a point where your profile is
an asset that feeds you work and then you can start to charge more.
That is the biggest area of your profile.
This box here in the next video we're going to look
at the other areas of your profile which
aren't necessarily so much in your control or so important as this first box here,
which is the first impression.
I'll see you in the next video.